HTTP headers: deprecating "(Want-)?Digest", adding "(Want-)?(Content-|Repr-)Digest" (#26885)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/digest/index.md

title: Digest
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Digest
page-type: http-header
status:
  - deprecated
browser-compat: http.headers.Digest
---

> {{HTTPSidebar}}

Reviewer: This is the way deprecation is normally added. We'll keep your note because it is more informative.
```suggestion
{{HTTPSidebar}}{{Deprecated_Header}}
```

title: Digest
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Digest
page-type: http-header
status:
  - deprecated
browser-compat: http.headers.Digest
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

> > **Warning:** This header was removed from the specification in [draft 8](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers-08). Use {{HTTPHeader("Repr-Digest")}} instead. For `id-*` digest algorithms, use {{HTTPHeader("Content-Digest")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This header was removed from the specification in [draft 8](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers-08).
> Use {{HTTPHeader("Repr-Digest")}} instead.
> For `id-*` digest algorithms, use {{HTTPHeader("Content-Digest")}}.
```

title: Digest
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Digest
page-type: http-header
status:
  - deprecated
browser-compat: http.headers.Digest
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

> **Note:** This header was removed from the specification in [draft 8](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers-08).
> Use {{HTTPHeader("Repr-Digest")}} instead.
> For `id-*` digest algorithms, use {{HTTPHeader("Content-Digest")}}.

> The **`Digest`** response or request HTTP header provides the other side with a {{Glossary("digest")}} of the _selected representation_ or _content_. It can be requested by using the {{HTTPHeader("Want-Digest")}} header.

Reviewer: The "or content" seems redundant. The content is a selected representation. Would this be better?

```suggestion
The **`Digest`** response or request HTTP header provides a {{Glossary("digest")}} of the _selected representation_ of the requested/provided resource.
It can be requested by using the {{HTTPHeader("Want-Digest")}} header.
```

Author: I did have a think; see further down.

## Directives

- `<digest-algorithm>`
  - : Digest algorithm valuess are defined in [6. Digest Algorithm Values](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers-07#name-digest-algorithm-values).
    - Permitted digest algorithm values are: `sha-512` and `sha-256`
    - Permitted insecure digest algorithm values are: `md5`, `sha`, `unixsum`, `unixcksum`, `adler32` and `crc32c`
    - Deprecated digest algorithm values include: `id-sha-256`, `id-sha-512`
- `<digest-value>`

>   - : The result of applying the digest algorithm to the resource representation and encoding (for non-`id-*` digest algorithm values) the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The result of applying the digest algorithm to the resource representation and encoding the result (for non-`id-*` digest algorithm values).
```

>     The choice of digest algorithm also determines the encoding to use: for example SHA-256 uses base64 encoding whilst unixsum is represented by a decimal integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The choice of digest algorithm also determines the encoding to use: for example SHA-256 uses base64 encoding, whilst unixsum is represented by a decimal integer.
```
